Blog post for Bottles 50 (#48)
bottlesdevs/website: _posts/2023-01-14-release-2023.01.14.md

---

> title: "Release Day 50.0: Bug hunting and new version name"

Author: ```suggestion
title: "Release Day for Bottles 50: Bug hunting and new version name"
```

---
title: "Release Day 2023.01.14: Bug hunting"
description: "Today is release day!"
published: 2023-01-14
layout: post
thumb: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/bottlesdevs/data/main/releases/2022.11.14/release-day.png
background: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/bottlesdevs/data/main/backgrounds/2022.11.14.png
published: true
comments: true
is_release_day: true
is_release_day_color: '#FF5F1F'
user_nick: Kinsteen
user_name: Kinsteen
user_tag: Contributor
co_user_nick: TheEvilSkeleton
co_user_name: Hari Rana (TheEvilSkeleton)
co_user_tag: Developer
---

Happy new Year! Let's hope for the best for everyone!

And it's release day again!

Last month, there wasn't a blog post for the 2022.12.14 release, so everything will be here. It will be a long one!

Lots of stuff to talk about, so let's start with...

## Release schedule change (again)!

> As the project is getting bigger and bigger, and the developers have less time to focus on Bottles, there was a decision to ditch the monthly release cycle, to a cycle similar to GNOME: updates when they are ready. That will let us have more time to develop new features, while still pushing bug fixes in due time, without having to wait a month.

Reviewer: That's not how GNOME's cycle works – they do it twice a year.

Author: Oops that's what I understood with the talks. To be sure, it's release when we want with a numbering scheme *like* GNOME?

Reviewer 2: What should we say instead?

Reviewer: I'd just cut out that part here.

> As the project is getting bigger and bigger, and the developers have less time to focus on Bottles, there was a decision to ditch the monthly release cycle, to a cycle similar to GNOME: updates when they are ready. That will let us have more time to develop new features, while still pushing bug fixes in due time, without having to wait a month.

Author: ```suggestion
As the project is getting bigger and bigger, and the developers have less time to focus on Bottles, there was a decision to ditch the monthly release cycle, to a cycle where we release updates when they are ready. That will let us have more time to develop new features, while still pushing bug fixes in due time, without having to wait a month.
```

> We don't have a new release naming scheme yet, but something similar to GNOME again is discussed. For example, having a major number change when new features are introduced, and minor number changes for bug fixing.

Author: ```suggestion
We don't have a new release naming scheme yet, but something similar to GNOME is discussed. For example, having a major number change when new features are introduced, and minor number changes for bug fixing.
```

    <img tooltip="Library view after delete" class="on-light" src="/uploads/bottles-new-libray-delete-light.png" />
</div>

### New Window manager decorations toggle
There's now a new settings to disable window decorations in the `Display Settings` of each bottle. This fixes issue [#2309](https://github.com/bottlesdevs/Bottles/issues/2309) where the settings was only available in Wine config.

<img tooltip="Display Settings View" class="on-light" src="/uploads/bottles-new-toggle-win-decs-light.png" />
<img tooltip="Display Settings View" class="on-dark" src="/uploads/bottles-new-toggle-win-decs.png" />

### New runtime to support latest EAC
We also updated the runtime used by Bottles with the latest version of Easy Anti-Cheat libraries! This should help with some games that requires this anti-cheat software.

### New FSR settings
The options window for FidelityFX Super Resolution was updated to be clearer about what is does.

<img tooltip="Display Settings View" class="on-light" src="/uploads/bottles-new-fsr-settings.png" />
<img tooltip="Display Settings View" class="on-dark" src="/uploads/bottles-new-fsr-settings-dark.png" />

### GStreamer related changes

> Some runners ships with GStreamer plugins, which is great! But it wasn't properly used by Bottles. There were some changes to the backend so that now it is properly used, and works in any circumstances. You can have more details in the [FAQ](https://docs.usebottles.com/faq/video-gstreamer-problems).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Some runners ship with GStreamer plugins, which is great! But it wasn't properly used by Bottles. There were some changes to the backend so that now it is properly used, and works in any circumstances. You can have more details in the [FAQ](https://docs.usebottles.com/faq/video-gstreamer-problems).
```

### New CDN and automated components

> We now have a better and more robust CDN that serves all the files that Bottles use, with many mirrors around the world (special thanks to [GARR](garr.it) for hosting!).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We now have a better and more robust [content delivery network](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Content_delivery_network) (CDN) that serves all the files that Bottles use, with many mirrors around the world (special thanks to [GARR](garr.it) for hosting!).
```

We also now have automatic components update, so that you can have the most up-to-date version of DXVK, VKD3D, built right from their respective repository! Those versions have a git tag after their name, like `dxvk-2.0-1-196fefe`.

### All other changes
There were a lot of other changes for this release, and those were the highlights:

- Fix Latencyflex not disabling correctly and environment variables by @Kinsteen

> - misc: Update screenshots by @TheEvilSkeleton
> - misc: Update issue form by @TheEvilSkeleton

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

See the full changelog here: [2022.12.14](https://github.com/bottlesdevs/Bottles/releases/tag/2022.12.14) and [2022.12.14.1](https://github.com/bottlesdevs/Bottles/releases/tag/2022.12.14.1).

Few, that was a lot of things! Now, let's talk about 2023.01.14!

## Changes in 2023.01.14
As said earlier, we focused this release on bug fixing and polishing of Bottles. There isn't a lot of new features in this release, but Bottles is a **lot** more stable and polished as it was before, and we will continue in this path for one or two more releases before we're happy with the state of things.

### Asynchronous fetching of resources
Bottles pretty much requires a stable connection to be usable, as it downloads stuff at each startup to know about updates of components and other things. This made the startup of the software quite slow for those with a slow or unstable connection.

Now, Bottles will download in the background those updates, so that you can use Bottles faster at startup! This speeds up the startup from 3 seconds to 1.5 seconds if you have a connection of 50KB/s.

It also helps even if you have a fast connection by parallelizing multiple download at once.

> ### Smoother UI

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Smoother interface
```

> When entering a bottle, the UI doesn't freeze anymore! You will see the beautiful transition. Same thing when opening the dependency view in a Bottle. You have to experience it to know that it's what you were missing. After you've tried it, there's no going back.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When entering a bottle, the interface doesn't freeze anymore! You will see the beautiful transition. Same thing when opening the dependency view in a Bottle. You have to experience it to know that it's what you were missing. After you've tried it, there's no going back.
```
